This section we'll deal with what to be displayed in the single blog page.
So when you click on a blog post we will create a template for this page. And this template will display information
about this post. So that the post thumbnail and the content of course and will also display the categories
and tags.
And finally we will display information about the author of this post. And we'll also add posts navigation.
And by post navigation I mean we'll add a couple of links after the post to go to the next or previous posts.
So first let's remember in the child theme we added a filter to limit the number of posts here to 2.
Let's remove that before we start.
So let's add our child theme to the workspace. And
let's remove this filter.
And now we have our posts normally. So let's go now to one of the posts.
Let's say this one. And right now we don't have a single.php file and to display this post WordPress
is falling back to index.php.
So
what you're seeing here now is outputted by index.php.
So let's copy what's in index.php and let's create a new file called single.php. Let's now paste.
And we need to use the same layout the rows and columns.
So in the index we decided that we will have a sidebar or not by checking is_active_sidebar(). But
now in the single we'll have another factor to decide that which is the custom field that we created in the last
section. So here we will not only need to check if is_active_sidebar( 'primary-sidebar' ), we also need to get
the option whether the layout is a full layout or layout with a sidebar.
So let's remove this for now and let's hardcode it to 8.
And also let's remove this condition.
And we'll deal with this condition in a moment but let's now deal with the get_template_part() loop index.
So this will go and get loop.php.
So the loop.php will display the pagination for example and we don't need that in a single blog
page.
So you can do and if condition here if not single don't display it.
But let's just copy this and instead of calling this template let's paste and let's remove what we
don't need.
And that's because the single.php will contain a lot of information other than the normal loop.
So instead of modifying this loop.php let's create everything here from scratch.
So we don't need the pagination. We don't need the pagination action.
However everything else we still of course need to call the posts. And we need to get the content as well.
I know the content right now is, it's in template-parts and then post and content.
So I know it's currently displaying the excerpt and and we don't need that we need to display the contents and maybe
other stuff. But we'll deal with this in a moment. Let's just in this section focus on the layout.
And right now nothing will be different yet. We're still displaying the same content.
But let's now get the option, the layout option for a single blog post.
And we also get the is_active_sidebar( 'primary-sidebar' ) and appending on these two we will decide whether
to display a sidebar or not.
So let's open a PHP tag here.
And let's define a variable $layout and this will be get_post_meta().
And the "id", get_the_ID() and the "key" will be I think we call it "_themename_post_layout". And we'll make sure
now.
And the "single", we'll set it to "true". So let's var_dump() this to make sure we have the right key.
So right now we have an empty string. And that's because, let's go to wp-admin, and that's because we've
never saved the metaboxes for this post.
So
let's go to post and this one.
So we defined these fields but we never updated this post,
this particular post.
So that's why it's returning an empty string.
So actually we need to handle a default value for this field.
But let's now try and save it.
And let's refresh. And we probably have the wrong key.
All right.
So we have two "_" here remember? And now if we save and refresh, we'll have "full".
But now let's go to the index again and let's go to a post that we haven't saved these metafields for yet. And we
still have an empty string.
So when we get this field we need to check if this is false or an empty string.
We need to have a default value,
right?
So we can simply write in if condition or a ternary expression here.
So if $layout then $layout otherwise a default value.
But why don't we create a helper function instead of every time we get a field
we write an if condition like that?
Why don't we write a helper function that will take a default value and return it
if the post have no value for this field? So let's go to lib/helpers.php.
Let's create a new function.
Let's call it
"_theme_meta()"
"_theme_meta()". And this function will take exactly like this function, the ID and the key. And maybe you can skip
this "true" and always defaulted to "true" because we probably will set this is "true" every time.
So let's make the third argument the default value.
So we'll have the $id
and the $key and $default.
And now what we're gonna do is we're gonna call this function
with the $id
and the $key and "true" always.
And let's put this in a variable. And then we have to check "if (!$value)", if $value is "false"
or empty string or whatever any false value.
And also if we have a default value, if we defined the default value, we need to return the $default value.
Otherwise we will return the $value.
So let's now use this function
instead of get_post_meta() here. And it's this "true" will have a default value. Let's say the default value will
be full. Let's save now and we'll have "full" in this post that returned an empty string before.
And we have "full" here because it's full. But let's try and change it.
And it's now "sidebar".
Great.
So what we need to do next
is we need to create a new variable. Let's call it $sidebar. And this variable will be a boolean and it will check if the primary
sidebar is active.
So "is_active_sidebar( 'primary-
sidebar')".
So before using the $sidebar variable let's now, I'm gonna add a class here that I'm gonna use
for styling. Let's call "o-single-post-" and then open PHP and then echo
the $layout. So I'm gonna style the layout differently according to "full" or "sidebar".
So that's why I had this class.
Also we need to change this 8.
It will be either 8 or 12 depending on the layout. So let's remove the 8 and open PHP. And a condition will be, we'll echo
and then a ternary expression. If "$layout=== 'sidebar'", it will be 8, otherwise12.
And then we have to check if the $layout is sidebar,
we will display the sidebar.
Otherwise we will display nothing.
So let's see now.
So we have a "sidebar" option in this post.
Let's change it to "full".
And now it's "full". Let's chage this to "sidebar" again.
And it now will have a sidebar, but what if the sidebar not active.
So let's go to Appearance and Widgets.
And in the Primary Sidebar let's remove all the widgets
And let's refresh and we'll have this.
So this may be fine with you but maybe it's much better to if the sidebar is not active to fall
back the layout to "full" instead of "sidebar".
Right?
So that's why I added this variable here.
So let's do a quick if condition.
So "if ($layout ==='sidebar')" but we don't have a sidebar so, "&& !$sidebar" we will just change the
$layout variable to "full" instead of "sidebar".
So let's save now and now we have it. Let's now add some widgets.
And refresh.
And now we have the sidebar again.
Let's just final make sure the "full" option is still fine. And it is. So great we're now creating this layout
dynamically. Let's now of course as you can notice, we have the excerpt here and we have the "Read More" and
we don't need the "Read More" in the single post.
So let's in the next lecture we'll go to the content template part and we'll do some if conditions
that will display things differently depending on if we are in a single post or we're just in the loop
and not in a particular post.
So see you in the next lecture.